hello Internet how are you doing welcome
to episode 5 the final episode of how to
podcast I have brought you guys through
the journey of starting my own podcast
make sure to check out the first 4
episodes if you're curious about
starting a podcast you just want to
watch the journey episode 4 was a
special one to me we did a giant live
recording of the podcast and you guys
attended in New York City it was it was
magical so for this final episode I'm
doing a QA of the questions I maybe
haven't answered yet I took to you guys
on YouTube community page actually I
posted a picture you guys send me
questions I'm going to address episode 3
some of the episode was about why I left
a certain podcasting app that I used to
use for distribution because I talked
about them a lot I want to give you guys
a little bit more of an explanation I
actually left a lot out of that video
because I just thought the other stuff
the episode was more interesting there's
nothing in there alright so my first
question comes from tacos and gold
chains
wow what a youtube name with a growing
wave of people starting their own
podcast besides the love for
interviewing and talking with people
what does the back end look like
financially do podcasters make money off
of views or streams or only ads and
sponsors also what new sponsors
typically pay for a spot that is such a
good question that is actually something
that I don't fully know right now I have
a lot of awesome sponsors that sponsor
my main channel so branded content is
nothing new to me but I'm not too sure
what the podcast world is like in terms
of money I know it's more
straightforward so say you have 10,000
lessons a hundred thousand lessons a
million lessons there are certain rates
that go for those certain tiers of
lessons it starts getting complicated
though with YouTube views now people put
their podcast in their video for another
podcast on YouTube twitch etc but here's
the thing
traditional sponsors who sponsor podcast
content
only speak the language of lessons and
so a lot of times YouTube views don't
matter to them and that's something that
I've been trying to kind of navigate so
the first thing I'm doing is kind of
taking it into my own hands I started
actually a patreon for the creative
exchange and now on the YouTube channel
you're only going to be able to see
highlights the podcast which I think you
guys are gonna appreciate because maybe
you don't even watch the full episode
maybe you can watch an exciting clip
from it you can say oh I actually want
to listen to the full episode you can
still listen to it on a podcast Spotify
all the places for free of course but if
you just have to have that one hour of
video of the podcast you just would see
us with your eyeballs well you can head
over to the creative exchange patreon
page and there's actually a second tier
where I'm going to do a bonus podcast
it's going to be a live stream with me
you and there's only gonna be a certain
amount of people who can be in there
this is gonna be a very intimate live
stream conversation
[Music]
damn right ask how do you get a podcast
on the Apple podcast app I have a
podcast it's called the excuse me
podcast check it out sassy like excuse
me and I put it on SoundCloud right now
but I want it to go on the Apple so you
have to use a service or an app that
distributes your set podcast so the
distributor that I use a simple cast you
can also use anchor app which I used to
use that is more of like a simple oh you
can just record your phone and within a
few days that gets distributed to the
other platform say the simple past
simple cast is super quick so that's the
one I would recommend but there's a ton
out there and I actually have an entire
episode where I let you know other
options as well Matthew Piasecki asks
how do you get in touch with the people
you want to interview for your podcast
are they friends do you have connections
with people how does it work so luckily
I've been doing YouTube for a long time
I posted my first video ever in 2011 I
really started going in 2014-2015 and
ever since I started it was all around
talking to creative people showing their
process having conversations with them
so it's actually one of the easiest
parts for me I know it's difficult for
other people so now that I've had years
of making videos and meeting people
making content with them it's very easy
for me to ask them hey you want to be on
a podcast and there's also that value
exchange
I have listeners who are curious about
you know other people's creative lives
they're gonna check them out after so
the key the number one key number the
number one thing guys when asking
another person to do something with you
creatively is I'm gonna go out Gary
Vaynerchuk
you know you have to add value there has
to be a reason why that other person
wants to be on your podcast or be in
your video if you're young and you guys
like have a ton of friends and just go
create and have fun and don't worry
about the numbers but when you get to a
certain level and people's lives are
busy there has to be a value exchange am
ii asks I have a rode videomic pro and
video what equipment do I need to record
an upload a podcast so I can't believe I
waited until now but I have specific kit
links down in the description below that
shows a my full podcast set up all of
the fancy things and then a more
stripped-down cheap one because a lot of
you guys are asking for that cheaper
setup and I found myself using that
cheaper setup more just because it's
less bulky on the higher end i use the
shure sm7b mics what they're beautiful
they sound so fantastic if you listen to
any podcast you're probably gonna see
those mics they're like the mics to have
so this is the sm7b you're not gonna get
a lot of signal out of this guy without
a cloud lifter and that again is in my
kit link Donal description below so
Peter F Adams asks how are your
microphones configured how's your
recording setup how do you place your
guest to the mic again I have a lot of
videos on this already you can check
them out in the description below but
one aha moment that I had is recording a
podcast actually has so much to do with
how close you are to the mic the closer
your guest is the closer you are to your
mic the better it's going to sound
business it's not very flexible and the
guests will get super comfy in the comfy
chairs and they'll lean back and they'll
just like the mic will be putting this
way and they'll be over here and it'll
just be like this isn't the mic this is
a brim that's not gonna be good audio so
this is why I set up this arm business
thing cuz hopefully people will be able
to be in a relaxed position but also
just like will be able to adjust the mic
if they need to and it's right up in
their business the audio is gonna be
fantastic
because it's close to the subject that
would be like my number one tip you get
anything out of this yes how the gear
have all of the things but how you
actually place your mic in front of the
guests and just telling them right
before you record hey Bob so excited for
this conversation one little note just
keep the mic right right up in your
business your mouth will be good how I
noticed this is I was using my mobile
setup with the 58 and it started to
sound even better than this setup
because when you force someone to hold
the mic that mic is always gonna be
right here it's gonna be close to the
round just like if you can't just say
hey I'm the creative guy and that's all
I'm gonna do it's a studio space in
Tribeca how do you avoid the awkwardness
when someone is explaining a point
during the podcast and you want to say
uh-huh yes I get you all right but you
know it's gonna sound bad when you
listen to the final audio so true so
true what you do not want to do on a
podcast is when the other person is
talking to be like mmhmm yep I see I
hear that I hear it which honestly I do
a lot in just everyday life I believe in
like yes positive affirmations like yes
get it you go girl however you don't
want to do that in a podcast so I will
say number one step it's just being
conscious of it and then number two to
practice maybe do some test podcasting
maybe you just do it while you're having
a conversation with a friend so Elliot
how was your day today
amazing it's it's good I did a lot of
stuff it's great it's awesome yeah it I
yes you can speak with your eyes you can
you know egg on may be a answer with
just like silence sometimes when you
want someone to go deep into a subject
just not saying anything and just like
accepting them with your eyes or like a
smile or maybe a simple head nod really
help so next conversation you have with
someone practice just letting them talk
and you don't say anything so the last
question was about the editing
process Sara please give us a little
insight on the editing of podcast what
process or tools do you use and how to
make this process simple I actually
started using certain plugins it's
called like era plug or like I'll link
it in description below that email me
your like hey use our plugins and it has
a certain plugin called deep reverb
which really helps when you're in a big
room but sucks out all of the reverb in
the room so this is what a final podcast
looks like you have the close-up shot
and the wide angles and I don't use
multicam or anything I literally just
cut it as is and then here is the good
audio down here from my recorder and
click on it and as you can see I don't
do a lot to it I basically have a simple
single band compressor on it that levels
the audio so it's not super all over the
place and then I have this era reverb
remover and you just put it on your
audio and you have it's just like a one
dial plug-in so it's super easy to use
and it just sucks out the reverb so this
is what ended up something like and I'm
like hey I'm the crazy guy that threw
the pedal at you and so yeah we tried it
was it it was a modified boss ot3
over okay yeah so it wasn't this was
before wampler Pasha
[Music]
a few months ago I launched my podcast
the first episode was Gary Vaynerchuk
and I had a launch my podcast a month
actually before I wanted to because I
wanted that Gary Vee episode to launch
on the day of his book release makes
sense so this is really the only answer
that I gave to you guys about why I left
anchor to specify at the time when I had
to launch my podcast anchor was still
separating long forums of audio into
five minutes on the platform and
uploading your audio really wasn't
designed for long-form content simple
cast seemed just more like a
straightforward utility you upload your
podcasts it puts it on Apple pod has all
the places and all you had to do was
upload that one audio file so add that
one specific time symbol cast was a
better platform for me to use and I knew
another version was coming from Ankur
but it just didn't have what I needed at
that moment now there's actually so much
more behind this decision that I didn't
share with you just because it seemed
more like personal business so here's
the truth the somewhat full story I had
been working with anchor for a while
half of it was just because I was stoked
on their product and the other half was
we're trying out different relationships
you know oh you paint you for this and
blah blah but that didn't last very long
so I loved the audio space and I want to
somehow be more involved beyond just
producing podcast I believe I not only
can offer companies my knowledge my
audience but also my community of
creators that I have and the fact that
they trust my opinion just by making
podcasts on anchor actually got a lot of
creators on board I loved the people at
anchor I still do I saw their vision I
wanted to keep helping but I needed some
type of value in return so we started
working on a deal where I would be part
of the launch of their new version of
their app but there was just no
flexibility on anchors side of things to
reciprocate the value that I know
that I could offer them so this is a
wall that you hit with many companies
that you work with with brand work
sometimes they can't pay you enough or
sometimes they can't pay period for the
amount of work that you're gonna put in
for them and you know that it's gonna be
amazing product but if they can't
reciprocate then it's not worth it
this was unique just because they're a
start-up and also it felt more personal
because I had really grown to love their
to you as we were in the middle of still
trying to work this deal out they asked
me to enter them to a big creator
because they wanted to see if they could
launch the new version of the app with
him which kind of hurt a little bit just
because I thought that's what they were
trying to do with me but you know the
creator's didn't message back and I
tried to move on and keep this going to
see if we could find something that
could work there was just absolutely no
budging on their end so as I got closer
to the lunch with my podcast and my
professional relationship with anchor
didn't have a future I went to a service
that could help me then and there and
help me plunge in a podcast and that was
simple cast and something that I want to
stress since this time anchor has to
release their new version it's
friendlier for longer form content and
may roll out a lot of cool features
especially for people who want to just
start out you start out with your phone
I guess I was just looking for something
simpler that did the things I needed to
do so that was distribution analytics
and complete ownership of my thumbnail
of my episode just full control of
everything so yeah I was prepared to do
a lot with anchors but what they offered
just didn't line up with how much time I
was willing to put forth so the end of
the day both parties have to just do
what's best for them and that's what
happened at some point during that whole
thing they started talking to that one
creator that honestly is probably one of
the best people you could have ripping
your brands I guess I was the middleman
until I didn't have to be so I think I
only told like two people in my life
about this but there was a point it was
a low point in YouTube for me where
everything was chaos and I legitimately
almost emailed anchor and asked them for
a full time job I was ready to like just
knock
full-time youtuber anymore that's how
much I like them and how stoked I was
about their future and the reason why
all of this just kind of stunk but
anyways my job isn't to build these apps
or build these platforms it's to create
awesome stuff for you awesome content
awesome podcasts which I'm so in love
with and I'm loving right now and I
think it's valuable to bring you guys
along with me on these journeys of
behind-the-scenes hopefully it's
valuable it just means a lot that you
guys are listening to the creative
exchange that's my podcast and check it
out the town in this ravine below what
if we the Peachy fam can pop off this
app like just us that's that would be
[Music]
[Applause]
you